#summary FAQ - frequently asked questions
#labels Featured

=== Why SIPVicious? ===

Because the tools are not exactly the nicest thing on earth next to a SIP device. And the play on the sound seems to work. As an extra bonus, it rhymes with the name of Sex Pistol's bass player. 

=== Why did you publish tools that can be used for illegal purposes? ===

The idea behind the tools is to aid administrators and security folks make informed decisions when evaluating the security of their SIP-based servers and devices. The tools are intended to be used for educational and demonstrational purposes. We advise people to request permission before making use of the tool suite against any network. Just like a knife, it can be used for good and bad. We hope that SIPVicious tool suite proves to be a very sharp one. 

=== I'm running {{{svwar}}} against a PBX server and not getting any results ===

That might mean two things: 
  # You do not have any valid extensions in your guess method. If you know any valid extension on the target PBX try that out and make sure that it shows up in the results. You can specify numeric ranges to try via the {{{-e}}} (or {{{-r}}}) option, or dictionary files containing possible extension names via the {{{-d}}} option.
  # You're running {{{svwar}}} against a PBX that does not differentiate responses between existing and non-existing extensions. You can try different methods, such as INVITE and see what comes up.

{{{svwar}}} has an option {{{--force}}}. This should be used in lab environment when one is testing a SIP device for behavior quirks. Using this in live environment may create unnecessary network traffic. 

=== Why does {{{svcrack.py}}} send so many REGISTER messages for the same extensions but only few of them actually trying Auth? ===

This is done to generate a new nonce because on some systems, the nonce expires. However not all servers expire the nonce so if you would like to reuse the nonce, {{{svcrack}}} has an option {{{-n}}}. 

=== I have a question about {{{svcrash}}} ===

Check out the SvcrashFrequentlyAskedQuestions

=== Why is my question not here? ===

Probably because my telepathic skills leave a lot to be desired. Don't hesitate to email me sandro@enablesecurity.com